---
title: 'polycrstalx: Interfacing FEniCSx with Material Modeling'
authors:
  - name: Donald E. Boyce
    affiliations:
      - Cornell University
    email: donald.e.boyce@gmail.com
  - name: Paul Shade
    affiliations:
      - Air Force Research Laboratory
    email:
  - name: Diwakar Naragani
    affiliations:
      - University of Dayton Research Institute
    email:
  - name: Armand Beaudoin
    affiliations:
      - University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
    email:
license: CC-BY-4.0
exports:
  - format: pdf
    template: ../../template

---

We present two companion python packages, polycrystal and polycrystalx;
polycrystal is a package for material behavior of polycrystalline
materials, and polcyrstalx is a python interface to fenicsx for finite
element modeling of such materials.
The focus of the talk is on the polycrystalx package as
a model for using fenicsx in a particular research area.
The user does not interact directly with FEniCSx.
Input wrappers are provided for loading meshes, functions and
boundary conditions in a simple and consistent way using
terminology familiar to the research area.
The package has four main components: processes, forms, loaders and inputs.
Processes are the highest level and refer to material processes being
modeled, such as linear elasticity, crystal slip or thermal analysis.
Each process generates initially blank forms from the forms library.
The loaders operate on the input specifications to deliver the form
coefficients. The inputs specifications are generated by the user, using
the inputs package.
The input specifications are designed with batch processing
in mind, so that it is easy to document, set up, and run suites of simulations.
We believe that many of our tools will be useful outside our field,
and that polycrystalx provides one approach for making FEniCS more widely
accessible.
We are in the process of making both packages open source.
